docs/devices/E2489.md, before:

---
title: "IKEA E2489 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2489 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2026-01-01T13:27:46
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2489

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2489  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | BILRESA remote control with buttons |
| Exposes | battery, identify, action |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2489](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2489.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->


<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `identify_timeout`: Sets the duration of the identification procedure in seconds (i.e., how long the device would flash).The value ranges from 1 to 30 seconds (default: 3). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `1` and with a maximum value of `30`

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Identify (enum)
Initiate device identification. This device is asleep by default.You may need to wake it up first before sending the identify command..
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"identify": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `identify`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `off_double`, `on_double`.

Commit message:

add pairing and resetting ntoes for E2489

docs/devices/E2489.md, after:

---
title: "IKEA E2489 control via MQTT"
description: "Integrate your IKEA E2489 via Zigbee2MQTT with whatever smart home infrastructure you are using without the vendor's bridge or gateway."
addedAt: 2026-01-01T13:27:46
pageClass: device-page
---

<!-- !!!! -->
<!-- ATTENTION: This file is auto-generated through docgen! -->
<!-- You can only edit the "Notes"-Section between the two comment lines "Notes BEGIN" and "Notes END". -->
<!-- Do not use h1 or h2 heading within "## Notes"-Section. -->
<!-- !!!! -->

# IKEA E2489

|     |     |
|-----|-----|
| Model | E2489  |
| Vendor  | [IKEA](/supported-devices/#v=IKEA)  |
| Description | BILRESA remote control with buttons |
| Exposes | battery, identify, action |
| Picture | ![IKEA E2489](https://www.zigbee2mqtt.io/images/devices/E2489.png) |


<!-- Notes BEGIN: You can edit here. Add "## Notes" headline if not already present. -->
### Pairing
When unpaired, the LED pluses yellow, with a period of about 3 seconds. Start pairing by pressing the middle button under the front/battery cover 4 times. Once the LED start blinking yellow rapidly, press the middle button 8 times. When connected, the light turns off.

### Resetting
Hold the middle button under the front/battery cover for 10 seconds. The LED will begin flashing red, and will stay red for a moment longer once the reset starts. The ligth turns off once the reset is done.
<!-- Notes END: Do not edit below this line -->



## Options
*[How to use device type specific configuration](../guide/configuration/devices-groups.md#specific-device-options)*

* `identify_timeout`: Sets the duration of the identification procedure in seconds (i.e., how long the device would flash).The value ranges from 1 to 30 seconds (default: 3). The value must be a number with a minimum value of `1` and with a maximum value of `30`

* `simulated_brightness`: Simulate a brightness value. If this device provides a brightness_move_up or brightness_move_down action it is possible to specify the update interval and delta. The action_brightness_delta indicates the delta for each interval. Example:
```yaml
simulated_brightness:
  delta: 20 # delta per interval, default = 20
  interval: 200 # interval in milliseconds, default = 200
```


## Exposes

### Battery (numeric)
Remaining battery in %.
Value can be found in the published state on the `battery` property.
To read (`/get`) the value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/get` with payload `{"battery": ""}`.
It's not possible to write (`/set`) this value.
The minimal value is `0` and the maximum value is `100`.
The unit of this value is `%`.

### Identify (enum)
Initiate device identification. This device is asleep by default.You may need to wake it up first before sending the identify command..
Value will **not** be published in the state.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) this value.
To write (`/set`) a value publish a message to topic `zigbee2mqtt/FRIENDLY_NAME/set` with payload `{"identify": NEW_VALUE}`.
The possible values are: `identify`.

### Action (enum)
Triggered action (e.g. a button click).
Value can be found in the published state on the `action` property.
It's not possible to read (`/get`) or write (`/set`) this value.
The possible values are: `on`, `off`, `brightness_move_up`, `brightness_move_down`, `brightness_stop`, `off_double`, `on_double`.
